what is hope?

hope is people were able to use http
along with nodejs and use postman
to send parameters atleast via get mode of request
in http.

we are going to see how react works if possible if everybody do some
basic programs on react it is a good idea.


summary of yesterday.
1. do we understand concept of event handling
what happens in event source and what happens in event listener.

who will define a function and let the system call it.(event listenr)
that is person who is interested in the event.

2. nodejs code.

someobject.someFucnction( function as input argument --X)
hey some function call the X function when are done with
the job... X is callback funtion. X function input argument
is not decided by us, it is decided by nodejs hence
we should know what Some function is doing to pass X properly.


http.createServer(function() { console.log(123);  } );
req and res is supplied to the function, only thing
we have decided to ignore it..

it will lab exam will be easy in this module.
some basic programs in nodejs and react..

2 basic programs
1. react
2. nodejs.  -- http or file , along with some stupid logic.
http --- take a string via get and in nodejs count the
number of words and each word how many times
it occcurs and return word and number of occurence as value.

who are worried about lab exam. just relax..

intent matters...take the project seriously when you do it
and ensure we have habit of using examples in the talk.
in interview and then hope all the galaxies align properly
and hopefully we get pleasant result in the interview
unplesant result comes means ok change ....
boring..
100% gurantee does not exist for anything...

all systems will be incomplete and inconsistant.. that is mathematically. proven.
i figured how to waste 5 minutes of your time, successfully ...

lab exam
1. keep your bp level normal
2. 2 question in lab exam.
2.1 nodejs   --  http or file handling.. read a txt file and count number of words.
2.2 react.
both programs will be simple, you will get all syntax.
2.3 what are you suppposed.
2.3.1 write the code.
2.3.2 take screen shot
2.3.3 zip the file.

frameworks...
what is react a  framework
what is jquery a framework
what is angular a framework
what is spirng a framework..


Sir, what kind of risk/errors we can expect while implementing project?
The biggest risk for the project is "intent" of team members...

for lab exam
2 hours should be enough..
in my view code should
get completed in 1 hour
1 hour to waste..

on august 2nd lab exam
will be relatiely easier
but that does not mean
you should not prepare..






people who have "high  bp" due to lab exam just relax... that is not worth having
high "bp".
today story is about 

1.what is "intent" we have when we do project.

the only "intent" we should have while we do project
is are we solving  the "customer problem"

why these kind of stupid examples, becuase "IT" industry
you have different flavours of stupidness exhibited
at different times.. by differnet people. so it is full
of stupidness (oPINION. DONT TRUST ME ..)


WHEN CUSTOMER HAS ASKED FOR A DOOR
CARPENTAR SPENDS TIME MAKING HAMMER
OR MAKING SAW .. customer door will take
more time, if he is a stupid carpentar then
he can tell the customer look I Planted the seed
for the wood. also, by time customer gets
the door he will become a fossil.

Intent cannot be fixed by a process.
it is just a thought..

X was lift person, person who operates the lift.
Y used come to lift everyday and ask X what is time?
X was getting bored of this question of Y. put a clock
X thought Y will not ask him any question
but he did not understand intent of Y.
Y started asking X everyday "is clock right"






as a programmer I can two "intent"

1. proper intent, is to tell my job is not think
too much of technology, first job is solve customer
problem learn whatever is needed to solve it..

2.my idea is learn java properlyor javascript properlyor 
react properly so let me do customer project..
learning technology at customers cost.. (pathetic intent)


opinion, agreeing gets zero marks..

Framework what does it mean.
1. they will have an opinion how to do things. architecture..
2. they will have some ready made funtions, classes.
3. it will some langauge specific.

collection framework in java.
i want write collection framework.
you are writing java code..


Sir, why we are using React instead of other js framework?

is 2 lecture enough for react? for learning react basics
it is enough learning "complete react"(scary word)

time is not enough for anything..




 Starting from 2nd top brick & starting from basic brick in that STAR figure..?

I am doing a project..( ghost intention 10000 ft above sky
no legs)

successful project. 100 explanations can be there all
can be correct
1. how many people are using it 
2. how long.
3. is it profitable little bit atleast..


sir why we call react a library not a framework

which technology you will use in your project
is left  to you , until somebody from ACTS or project
guide tells you use this technology only.


why are you doing project in ACTS course.

0. in interview they will ask you the project
1.you know some architecture. (2/5)
2. you can write code which is 5 to 10% relevant in real life. (3.5/5)
3. youc an show how you value colloboration , among 
the team members. ( 2/5)
4. ok you demonstrate process skills. (1/5)
scrum board.. 
stand up meeting

in adults world 
low prority means low priority
in kids world
low prioirty means no priority.






scenario
architecture
code.

zero chance of getting customers for the project
in ACTS course, that is ok.


Framework what does it mean.
1. they will have an opinion how to do things. architecture..
2. they will have some ready made funtions, classes.
3. it will some langauge specific.


is it possible to tell a "single movie" which is abest
movie and which everybody agree on..
people who answer this movie called "pqr" is the
best movie.. ==kids world.

there are hundreds of good movies and pqr is one among
them that is ok.. but to become fan of "pqr" and tell
this is best thing.. insane, because such things dont exist
in real life..

if somebody tells you that "X" approach is only
way to prepare for the interview, will you agree?
X is just one opinion how to prepare for the interview
so there can Y approach , Z approach...

in real life somebody tells there is "only one approachc"
horrible answer, it wont be..

should we become fan of "React" no
what are you learning "REact" according to acts major companies
which come to acts expect people to know React,so react
is there...
when programmer becomes fan of some framework or
langauge   == first sign he does not want a job.










in the industry there are opinions...of what is good depending on mood
of the person at that point of time..

take react as an opportunity to learn some framework.

I can learn any framework 
let me give  you an example how I learn react..

I am fan of react in my view not a great idea.
if reaxt is dead, do we want to be dead..

I am java fan.. ok that means secretly i am telling
if java is dead, i am dead that is pathetic.


technology person should be "generic" 

last 45 minutesd wastage of time to tell
learn react good, but dont make it react specific
generalize your learning..

we should have confidence to tell
put me on react today
tomorrow put me on angular
day after put  me on vue
my bp level will be normal only..

today i working on react
next project is on angular my bp raises.
"bad learning skill".

any framework is an  "opinion" and expecting
everybody to agree on it.. is stupidness.

when somebody tells "fan" he should be hanging
on the ceiling , fans hang on the celieng..

which is my favourite technology
none..

which is langauge i am comfortable with=
which langauge i coded for enough time  C++,java
but that does not mean i am fan of c++ or java..

fans == dangerous we should not..


jump from 2+3 to x+y







library != framework.
but in computer science english is free, so people use the word according
to thier "moods" that is case with react people ..
 
library ==i get some ready made functions and classes and no architectureis enforced
on me.. ( STL In c++,java collection framework..)

Trusting is done, when "thinking" disappears.
dont trust.. anyone including me..



jquery, angular or react
framework   == some architecture is enforced on me and then i also get
some ready made functions and classes to use..

how do you judge this..
1. write  a textbox, put a button clciking on button next number given textbox
should be shown. -- do this with just html,javscript
and no library at all.

2.
1. write  a textbox, put a button clciking on button next number given textbox
should be shown. -- do this with just html,javscript
jquery.


3.
1. write  a textbox, put a button clciking on button next number given textbox
should be shown. -- do this with just html,javscript
react.

4.
1. write  a textbox, put a button clciking on button next number given textbox
should be shown. -- do this with just html,javscript
react.
anguar..

people opinions are not facts...
dont become fan of any framework

i used react in the project
this is way react works.
does that mean react is greatest technology no..


which is yoru favourite DS (this is a stupid question
answering this confirums stupidity)
why it is stupid, DS means operations.
you tell what operations and then we will think whichDS

 we want fifo, queue
lifo stack...
queue is good or stack is good horrible question
same thing exists in frameworks also.



two set of frameworks

1. java based
jee
spring, springboot
hibernate


2. javascript based
2.1 jquery
2.1 react.
2.3 nodejs.

somebody tells i travelled from mumbai to pune..
how did you travel.
1. car
2. bus
3. train
4. flight
answer will be may 1 to 4 something he has to choose.
but he tells i walked...ok nothing wrong. strange answer.
you want more details..
why did you walk... look 1 month free time i wanted practice
walking so i did , nothing wrong this..

horrible answer, is oh i idd not know that bus, flight
train was avaialble for pune..


we will open syllabus and see where we are . after
tea break..


topic, how do you learn a framework called "X"


I am doing a project called X.
what frameworks are you using, and person tells
no framewok I am using.
this is sign of trouble for all "DAC projects" that
means they are useless from industry point of view..

I am building web  pages. which framework
are you using, none.. sign of trouble
ever since 1999, people are using frameworks 
in web based applications..


22 year history of using web based applications.
we use frameworks somebody not using frameowrks
ok but there should be a strong reason why theya re not using
frameworks..

minimum everycompany uses jquery...
i will use react
i wil use angualr...

what is biggest problem if you write web applaitions
without using frameworks for example  using
document.getElementById.... what is problem with this..

browsers have "moods"
some x  works on one browser
y works on other browser.
so as programmer you have take care of x and y both
if you use frameworks,f ramework will take care of x and y
you dont need to take care of it..
browser compatability issues.


when you are building a web appliation for presentation

1. which browsers are you targetting which versions
of the browser.
2... then come other things..
exmple ie support we canot stop ,d efault browser.
but ie is an example of worst browser designed..
for todays world..

i will demonstarte with code.

60% and 70% tip for you. use google formto tell
what you did not understand..


todays web appliation use angular or react most of times.

with respect to any framework.
1.where is it used in the 3 tier architecture.
2. which language it supports.
3. we should not use memory, we should find out
from the frameworks how to get started with
the framework.. and build simple example.




have you written programs
uisng html, css and javascript in client side.
in doing this you are atleat 70% above..

what did you do here..

1. we identified places in html which can change
or places we have to read, put id for it.
2. we wrote css classes for doing makeup.
3.we setup javascript events
3.1 read sections of html
3.2 do some logic ( contact the servie layer and send input
and get data  --ajax call). based on data got
3.3 update the page.

if you know upto 3.3 any prsentation framework
you should how to deal with only things names will
chagne, cocnepts dont..

what should i do react, angualr or jquery.
same thing written above..


classes will not get get applied automatically by browser
we have to apply it when need is there..
programmer can control to apply o rn ot to apply.
along with other answers you told that is fine..

can you remember syntax that depedns on how programs
we wrote..




file:///D:/$$$dac/programs/a01wf.html
no http so no question of web ...






no use of framework.

I want to use framework, nice english this is not technical
which framework, jquery.. oh you wantto use jquery that is fine
do you know architecture of jquery...

if you want to do this program in jquery, what is first step...

1. you need to include the jquery files...
2. you have to know document.ready...event..
3. you should how to select the textbox red its value...
today only I am learning jqueryok go slow, focus on each function
and see how it works. how to know what to include in jquery
read jquery documentation.
all these things needs patience..

two important thing while searching.

1. look for offiical site.
2. look at date.. if date is less than 4 years from this year
that means we are looking old article and things might have
changed, until you have data that nothing has changed..

if you dont find official site for a framework dont use the framework.
do you buy a washing machine for which service doe s not exist.



whenyou use framework look at date of first release
look at latest release.
botha re important. it shows that framework is still used..

i see a framework releasted in 2008
latest release is only 2012.
in my projet to use this framework we have "think" why...ideally dont use it..

framework usage needs zoom out first and not zoom in..

why i use w3c schools.

1. I fully know w3c schools
will give zero knowledge on architecture..
2. but i know copy pasted syntax
will work... so to practice syntax
after I know the concept
i will use w3c schools


you can use any website X.
1. know what website can teach
2. know what website cannot teach.

for people who tell faster , slower do
we have data.. or just opinion.
double check.. we should data



I am using framework ok you must functions of the framework.








basics if we are using something why rush thru
go slow, dont write poems just go step by step..

step by step we should know concepts..




so jquery setup is working

similary.. react or x framework or y frameworl who caress..
every framework will have an opinoin
so i cannot jump to w3c schools withosut know concept..
then w3c schools can feed me syntax...before copy
pasting check whether it is corect or not..
this requires patience..

NO i hate doing this, ok whenever a framework
comes jump and sit in a classroom and "hope"
the teacher or facaulty teaches properly.. this is pathetic..

in todays world our job is to learn topics from 10 places
and find out which one is correct..
yesterday story continuation.

step  by step is a nice word are we following..
do we know what are steps..


css clases welcome theory again
can you apply multiple css classes on anelement.

those use .css in jquery bad idea... dont convert
javascript file into a css file..


makeup should remain in css.
dynamic bheaviour in js
static behaviour in html


.css.style.color="color:blue"
.css.style.text-decoration="underline"
slowly mt js file will become css file it is a not a good
idea. no i will use it, ok use it.. 


when there is no customer for a project
project is not working keep bp level normal
think what needs to change... dont invest emotionin a 
non working code.. oh it is not working so what
think what ot change, change it...

what is best way
with framework
or without framework
answer is no dobut with framework..

if you are building web based application
and youa re deciding some framework
to choose for presentation layer.

1. then minimum is jquery
2. maximim is react
that is all you leanrin the course..
no framework is a sin...

in interview can you take an example and tell.
in example called X
1. if i did not use any framework this is way i code.
2. then in jqery i code this way
3. in react i code this way
if you give computer i can code and show you also.

use the word library happily than framework and leave it off.

use the world what wiki tells.
jquery and react are libraries.
we are focussing more function usage


typically answer is no...no i will write some kichidi code
ok do it.. litle bit of jquery, little bit of raw javascript code
ok write it... who cares...

spring framework
we are forced to understand architecture

simple stdory for today can convertingyour day1 asingment
into jquery stuff.
everybody should do it and prove you understood it..

convert jquery stuff in react..




11.04Am we will 11.25am and join back,, opensyllabus and see where are we..

after the break we will look at syllabus and where we are?



what is "Story i am telling from morning"

if you get a  framework called "x" can we learn by ourselves..
so to do that we should learn generalize
and not become fan of anyframework..

in nodejs, there is around 1 hour..of pending stuff.
remaining nodejs time i will spend on coming saturday
if we do that entir syllabus is over.. 

I wontcover express in the nodejs part, becuase
it is not there in the syllabus at some point of time
before project starts for those who need we will cover..

may before project starts we can think of doubts
and in that conextt we will cover some topics..
as of now focus is standalone nodejs..


soembody what do you know in nodejs.

1. service layer and dao design in js
2. nodejs runtime on which we write js code and run it.
3. event driven...talk about event handling.
4. example thru http..
5. dont know this becuase we have not covered 
some "jargons which we use to tell how nodejs works..
event loop...  on saturday you will know"

we are forced to talk about packge.json, why..
react also uses a runtime on nodejs to build react code..
we should how a program runs ok.. along with meaning
of build tools. and then comes what is meaning build
configuration files.

secret story, we are in world of "huge copy pastes"
java can copy paste from javascript
javascript can copy paste from java
python can copy paste from java..
.net copy paste.. 

after copy pasting, dont use the same name
use a different name then kids will be happy
they are using new things..

nodejs .. for all practical prupose it is copy paste
of spring framework...

spring framework is java based.
ndoejs is javascript based..

package.json in npm (mechansim to distribute librarires)
pom.xml maven...

welcome to world of basics.
.java file will  not run
.class will fun..


good basicto know that .class is running.
all this inivisible to me... ok thanks to eclispe..


jvm coverting to .class
java compiler is converting the .java into .class.
jvm is getting .class and running it.

wrong answer why...

none of you are h ere to get any certificates fromme saying
youa re good bad.. that is not my job neither you shouldcare.



writing code
build tools
configuration files for build tools.


we are forced to use libraries becuase langauge runtime doesnot 
have all the things we need.

example in java when we install jdk. we dont databse
related jar files so what we do download the jar files
and use it..

download the jar files good idea.
but we doing it bad idea.. why let the tool do it
it can do it in smarter way.

what is smarter way...
let us tool name is called X ( maven, npm ....)
it will use a configuration file.
maven -- pom.xml 
npm -- package.json.
when we download libraries, it will make an entry
into the configuration file.

let us i need a database library in nodejs.
i need an express library in nodejs.
which library you need you ahve to know
other people cannot help.

explain todays class in1 line
story telling
or
do zoom out first before you do zoom in

welcome to opinions node_modules is name
where library files are stored. inside the project
local installation.

it will store the nodemoduels outside your project.
that means multiple projects can use same module if need is there..
what is biggest problem we have in class room.

1. we dont understand that it is not about "I" it is about "We"
example

i have a project with package.json in s1

i give thi project to person called X who is working on s2.
in s2 has he already downloaded hte libraries, who knows
no
when we give project with package.json
he can do npm install.
thereby he can get the libraries..

if I am thinking IIIII 
only then none of things will make snese.

simple example
INheritance
class
object
here most important thing to know collobration
why

suppose X writes the class called Employee
Y is creating the object of the class.
meaning for constructor
X can impose some conditon on Y writing
constructor in Employee

X writes super class
Y writes the subclass.


who wrote the super class I
who wrote the subclass I
100% surely in a classroom.
kids world..

in react most important jargon
component..

what  are you supposed to do today..
1. convert day1 assingments into jquery.
you will show you know what framework is.
2. those who feel comfortable try converting
today what has been done in the class, 
odd, even with color into react... (optional)
3. make a quick summary of your oops skills.
what is a class, object.
what is inheritance
what is association
what is interface
what is package.








There are people who dont know ow to use paytm or google pay or book ola
or book uber... and that is becuase they are not interested in learning...
instead of learning i cant learn,,... no i find the bank convienct, i find going and taking
auto ...

















X creates the class
X is creaing the object.








































